---
title: "ournal Publication"
hide: navigation
  toc
---

# Journal Publication

## Author Designation Key:
*   **First Author:** <u>Underlined</u>  
*   **Corresponding Author:** \* (Asterisk)  
*   **First and Corresponding Author:** <u>Underlined and marked with an asterisk (\*)</u>  
* **Journal Quartile (Q1–Q4):** Indicates the journal's ranking in its subject category based on citation metrics. Q1 represents the top 25% of journals, Q2 the next 25%, Q3 the next 25%, and Q4 the bottom 25%.

---

1.  **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Dariyan, F.S., Mahdavianpour, M., Pourakbar, M., Aghayani, E. Comparison of response surface method and artificial neural networks in predicting formaldehyde and methanol removal using moving bed sequential batch reactor (MBSBR) and Fixed bed sequential batch reactor (FBSBR): Process optimization and kinetic study. *Separation and Purification Technology*, 363, 132097. (2025). (IF = 9.0, Q1)
2.  Khodarahmi, Z., Heidari, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Moussavi, G. Settleable microplastics in residential buildings in a Middle Eastern area during warm and cool seasons; quantification, characterization, and human exposure assessment. *Environmental Research*, 273, 121251. (2025). (IF = 7.7, Q1)
3.  Mojab, S., Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** The investigation of biological degradation of sodium dodecyl sulfate and its associated COD in wastewater using anoxic baffled reactor. *Iranian Journal of Health and Environment*. 18, 1-24. (2025). (Scopus, Q4)
4.  **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Sajadi, A., Moussavi, G., Heidari, M. Hydrothermal carbonization of plastic wastes and effect of influential parameters on performance and challenges: a review. *International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology*, Accepted, (2025). (IF = 3, Q1)
5.  Mosaferi, M., **Shekoohiyan, S.**, Behnami, A., Aghayani, E., Benis, K.Z., Allaeaiea, H. A comprehensive review of cyclic activated sludge processes in wastewater treatment: Current perspectives and future challenges. *Sustainable Chemistry for the Environment*, (2025), 9, 100191. (Scopus, Q2)
6.  Moussavi, G., Bakhtiarynasab, M., **Shekoohiyan, S.**, Mohammadi, S., Giannakis, S., Li, M., High potential of the vacuum UV-activated peracetic acid (VUV/PAA) process in eliminating recalcitrant contaminants and waterborne pathogens: Assessing the efficacy of annular and helical reactor configurations. *Journal of Water Process Engineering*, (2024), 60, 105143 (IF = 6.3, Q1)
7.  Mohammad Alizadeh, P., Ahmadi, O., **Shekoohiyan, S.**, SheikhMozafari, M.J., Comprehensive analysis of acoustic properties of cellulose nano fibers absorbers: experimental and FEM-based mathematical modeling evaluation. *International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology*, (2024), (IF = 3, Q1)
8.  **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Mehrabi, F., Health risk assessment of heavy metals in precipitated dust in goldsmith workshops and simulation using Monte Carlo method. *Case Studies in Chemical and Environmental Engineering*, (2024), 100973.
9.  Parsaee, F., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Moussavi, G., Life cycle assessment of Tehran’s COVID-19 facemasks and prediction of environmental impacts using machine learning. *Environment, Development and Sustainability*, (2023), (IF = 4.7, Q1)
10. Tarviji, H., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Moussavi, G., Heidari, M., Comparison of contamination levels and health risks of toxic metals in raw and home-cooked rice; A field study on some rural households of Northern Iran. *Journal of Food Composition and Analysis*, (2023), 122, 105461 (IF = 4.3, Q1)
11. Ghorbaninejad Fard Shirazi, MM., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Moussavi, G., Heidari, M., Microplastics and mesoplastics as emerging contaminants in Tehran landfill soils: The distribution and induced-ecological risk. *Environmental Pollution*, (2023), 324, 121368 (IF = 9.998, Q1)
12. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Hadadian, M., Heidari, M., Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, H., cycle assessment of Tehran Municipal solid waste during the COVID-19 pandemic and environmental impacts prediction using machine learning. *Case Studies in Chemical and Environmental Engineering*, (2023), 100331.
13. Fanaei, F., Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Enhanced bioremediation of oil-contaminated soil in a slurry bioreactor by H2O2-stimulation of oil-degrading/biosurfactant-generating bacteria: performance optimization and bacterial metagenomics. *Biodegradation*, (2023), 1-19 (IF = 3.731, Q1)
14. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Akbarzadeh, A., The abundance of microplastic pollution along the Jajroud river of Tehran: Estimating the water quality index and the ecological risk. *Ecological indicators*, (2022), 145, 109629. (IF = 6.263, Q1)
15. Ahmadiasl, R., Moussavi. G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Razavian, F., 1Synthesis of Cu-Doped TiO2 Nanocatalyst for the Enhanced Photocatalytic Degradation and Mineralization of Gabapentin under UVA/LED Irradiation: Characterization and Photocatalytic Activity. *Catalyst*. 2022, 12, 1310. (IF = 4.501, Q1)
16. Mohammadi, S., Moussavi, G., Kiyanmehr, K., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Heidari, M., Giannakis, S., Degradation of the antiviral remdesivir by a novel, continuous-flow, helical-baffle incorporating VUV/UVC photoreactor: Performance assessment and enhancement by inorganic peroxides, *Separation and Purification Technology*. 2022, 298, 121665. (IF= 9.136, Q1).
17. Molaee, S., Moussavi, S., Talebbeydokht, N., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Biodegradation of the petroleum hydrocarbons using an anoxic packed-bed biofilm reactor with in-situ biosurfactant-producing bacteria. *Journal of Hazardous Materials*, (2022): 421, 129699. (IF = 14.224, Q1)
18. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Parsaee, F., Ghyour, S., Assessment of knowledge, attitude and practice about biomedical waste management among healthcare staff of Fasa educational hospitals in COVID-19 pandemic. *Case Studies in Chemical and Environmental Engineering*, 6, 2022, 100207.
19. Mohammadi, S., Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Marin, M.L., Bosca, F., Giannakis, S., A continuous-flow catalytic process with natural hematite-alginate beads for effective water decontamination and disinfection: Peroxymonosulfate activation leading to dominant sulfate radical and minor non-radical pathways. *Chemical Engineering Journal*. 411, 2021, 127738. (IF = 16.744, Q1).
20. Karimian, S., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Moussavi, G., Health and ecological risk assessment and simulation of heavy metal-contaminated soil of Tehran landfill. *RSC Advances*, 2021. (IF = 4.036, Q1).
21. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Mahdavianpour, M., Aghayani, E., Risk assessment and modeling of heavy metals in universal and local types of tobaccos. *International Journal of Environmental Analytical Chemistry*. (IF = 1.431, Q2).
22. Fanaei, F., Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** Enhanced treatment of the oil-contaminated soil using biosurfactant-assisted washing operation combined with H2O2-stimulated biotreatment of the effluent. *Journal of Environmental Management*, (2020): 271, 110941. (IF = 5.647, Q1).
23. Karimian, S., Moussavi, G., Fanaei, F., Mohammadi, S., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Giannakis, S. Shedding light on the catalytic synergies between Fe (II) and PMS in vacuum UV (VUV/Fe/PMS) photoreactors for accelerated elimination of pharmaceuticals: The case of metformin. *Chemical Engineering Journal*, (2020): 400, 125896. (IF = 10.652, Q1).
24. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>**, Rahmania, A., Chamack, M., Moussavi, G., Rahmanian, O., Alipour, V., Giannakis, S. A novel CuO/Fe2O3/ZnO composite for visible-light assisted photocatalytic oxidation of Bisphenol A: Kinetics, degradation pathways, and toxicity elimination. *Separation and Purification Technology*, (2020): 242. (IF = 5.107, Q1).
25. **<u>Shekoohiyan. S.</u>**, Rtimi, S., Moussavi, G., Giannakis, S., Pulgarin, S. Enhancing solar disinfection of water in PET bottles by optimized in-situ formation of iron oxide films. From heterogeneous to homogeneous action modes with H2O2 vs. O2 – Part 2: Direct use of (natural) iron oxides. *Chemical Engineering Journal*, (2019): 360, pp: 1051-1062. (IF = 6.735, Q1).
26. **<u>Shekoohiyan. S.</u>**, Rtimi, S., Moussavi, G., Giannakis, S., Pulgarin, S. Enhancing solar disinfection of water in PET bottles by optimized in-situ formation of iron oxide films. From heterogeneous to homogeneous action modes with H2O2 vs. O2 – Part 1: Direct use of (natural) iron oxides. *Chemical Engineering Journal*, (2019): 358, pp: 211-224. (IF = 6.735, Q1).
27. Moussavi, G., Pourakbar, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, The photochemical decomposition and detoxification of bisphenol A in the VUV/H2O2 process: Degradation, mineralization, and cytotoxicity assessment, *Chemical Engineering Journal*, 331 (2018) 755-764. (IF = 6.735, Q1).
28. Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Naddafi, K. The accelerated enzymatic biodegradation and COD removal of petroleum hydrocarbons in the SCR using active bacterial biomass capable of in-situ generating peroxidase and biosurfactants, *Chemical Engineering Journal*, 308 (2017) 1081-1089. (IF = 6.735, Q1)
29. Moussavi, G., Momeninejad, H., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Baratpour, P. Oxidation of acetaminophen in the contaminated water using UVC/S2O82− process in a cylindrical photoreactor: Efficiency and kinetics of degradation and mineralization, *Separation and Purification Technology*, 181 (2017) 132-138. (IF = 3.927, Q1)
30. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Moussavi, G., Naddafi, K. The peroxidase-mediated biodegradation of petroleum hydrocarbons in a H2O2-induced SBR using in-situ production of peroxidase: Biodegradation experiments and bacterial identification, *Journal of Hazardous Materials*, 313 (2016) 170–178. (IF = 6.434, Q1)
31. Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** Simultaneous nitrate reduction and acetaminophen oxidation using the continuous-flow chemical-less VUV process as an integrated advanced oxidation and reduction process, *Journal of Hazardous Materials*, 318 (2016), 329-338. (IF = 6.434, Q1)
32. Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Naddafi, K. Anoxic biodegradation of petroleum hydrocarbons in saline media using denitrifier biogranules, *Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety*, 129 (2016) 51–56. (IF = 3.974, Q1)
33. Pourakbar, M., Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** Homogenous VUV advanced oxidation process for enhanced degradation and mineralization of antibiotics in contaminated water, *Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety*, 125 (2016) 72–77. (IF = 3.974, Q1)
34. Moussavi, G., Pourakbar, M., Aghayani, E., Mahdavianpour, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** Comparing the efficacy of VUV and UVC/S2O82− advanced oxidation processes for degradation and mineralization of cyanide in wastewater, *Chemical Engineering Journal* 294 (2016) 273-280. (IF = 6.735, Q1)
35. Moussavi, G., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Mojab, S. Adsorption capacity of NH4Cl-induced activated carbon for removing sodium dodecyl sulfate from water, *Desalination and Water Treatment* 57 (2016) 11283-11290. (IF = 1.631, Q3)
36. Moussavi, G., Jiani, F., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>** Advanced reduction of Cr (VI) in real chrome-plating wastewater using a VUV photoreactor: Batch and continuous-flow experiments, *Separation and Purification Technology* 151 (2015) 218–224. (IF = 3.927, Q1)
37. Mohagheghian, A., Mahvi, A.H., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Koolivand, A. determination of copper, nickel and chromium contents in cultivated tea in north of Iran, *Environmental Engineering and Management Journal* 14 (2015) 2409-2413. (IF = 1.0651, Q3)
38. Ghoochani, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Yunesian, M., Nazmara, S., Mahvi, A.H. Determination of aluminum and zinc in infusion tea cultivated in north of Iran, *Journal of Environmental Health Science and Engineering*, 13 (2015) 1-6. (IF = 2.337, Q1)
39. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Ghoochani, M., Mohagheghian, A., Mahvi, A.H., Yunesian, M., Nazmara, SH. Determination of lead, cadmium and arsenic in infusion tea cultivated in north of Iran. *Journal of Environmental Health Science and Engineering*, 9 (2012) 1-6. (IF = 2.337, Q1)
40. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Moussavi, G., Mojab, S. Adsorption of the reactive azo dyes onto NH4Cl-induced activated carbon, *Environmental Health Engineering and Management Journal*, 3 (2016) 1-7.
41. Alipour, V, Rezaie, L., **Shekoohiyan, S.**, Dindarloo, K., Goodarzi, B. Trihalomethanes formation Potential in drinking water from Minab Steghlal dam to Water Distribution Network in Bandar Abbas. *Hormozgan Medical Journal*. 2014: 18(3).
42. Ghoochani, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Mahvi, A.H., Haibati, B., Norouzi, M. Determination of Detergent in Tehran Ground and Surface Water. *American-Eurasian J. Agric. & Environ. Sci.* 2011, 10 (3): pp, 464-469.
43. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Dindarloo, K., Shirpour K., Omidi, N., Mshhadizadeh, N. The Study of Current Status of Hazardous Wastes Management in Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, *Medicine and Public Health Journal* 1 (2014) 20-24.
44. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Dindarloo, K., Tajvar, A., Shekoohiyan, N. Safety Assessment of Hospitals Affiliated with Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, Iran, *Medicine and Public Health journal* 1 (2014) 1-4.
45. **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.</u>**, Mahvi, M.H., Alimohammadi, M., Mesdaghinia, A.R., Nabizadeh, R., Dabbagh, R. Performance evaluation of cyanobacteria removal from water reservoirs by biological method. *African Journal of Microbiology Research*, 2013.7(17), pp: 1729-1734.
46. Fallahi, S., Nejatizadeh, A., Salimi, M., Rajai, M., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>** Assessment of faculty members’ and students’ awareness, attitude and performance about plagiarism at Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences. *Advances in Environmental Biology*, 2012. 7(1), pp: 66-69.
47. Heyat, A., Piroozan, A., Nedjatizade, A., Mohebi, S., **<u>Shekoohiyan, S.\*</u>** Researchers’ Attitude about Ethics in Research at Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, Bandar-e-Abbas, Iran. *Advances in Environmental Biology*, 2013.7(1), pp: 56-60.